---
layout: post
title: Reflections on Gather
date: 2023-11-10 01:03:29 +0200
categories: reflections
comments: true
---

## Life Lessons

### The Metaverse Trend

Everyone's seen the hype cycle graph. But a "lucky" few get to experience the feeling of being shot up one end of the slope and crashing down the other.

That's kind of what my first 2 years at Gather felt like. The entire company went through it.

- Rampant optimism allowed us to have a large vision
  - Platform for all different use cases
- For better or worse, having such default growth allowed us to work on interesting experimental things:
  - My first project was conversation splitting
- The question from day one was "what happens after covid"
  - We were incredibly aware that covid drove most of our user growth
  - The bet that we made was that remote work would be persistent after
- Crashing sucks, even when you know it's coming
- Focusing on the long term value/vision
  - The gather founders have my utmost respect for staying true to vision

### Building "Something People Want"

I struggle with this

I was incredibly proud of the work we did at Gather, including the new interactions models we were designing for virtual presence, the tough technical challenges of a video chat / remote office platform that serves millions of users, and creating a unique product with a distinctive feel and design (that a lot of competitors ended up copying).

### Working on a Unique Product

I struggle with describing Gather to people who've never seen it. You can't really reference any existing platforms, and the similar ones that do exist are even less well known.

I usually just say "virtual office company", but then people imagine either WeWork, or Teams. If I say "remote work platform", people imagine Slack or Zoom.
Eventually, I say something along the lines of: "imagine pokemon but you're in a virtual office and you can take meetings, go up to people's desks, and leave people notes"
or
"ok let me just show you. this is my office (opens Gather)"

To me, the struggle to adequately describe Gather gave me conviction we were working on a truly unique product. We were creating new interactions models, new interfaces, and new experiences that don't really exist on any other product.

[Interview from Peter Thiel](https://startups.joinperch.com/q/peter-thiel-on-why-sectors-and-trends-are-overrated-b379e1e8?perchObject=Video) about companies that don't fit existing categories

**Takeaway:** Creating a product that feels one-of-a-kind is incredibly energizing. It's not strictly always a good thing -- not every product should be inventing new UI/UX models -- but it's at least very fun to work on.

### Not Working On a "Serious" Product

I was incredibly proud of the work we did at Gather. However, I did feel slightly uncomfortable sometimes showing people the product I was working on. I had a sense that people view platforms like Gather as "not serious", simply because of it's pixel art / game-like design. The description "it's like pokemon but for remote work" made me cringe a little each time I used it.

Creating a platform like Gather involves some pretty hardcore technical challenges, but the significance of these challenges is lost on most people (including SWEs) who just see Gather as a video game.

It's like the opposite of an LLM wrapper: maximally impressive-sounding applications done with minimal technical difficulty.

**Takeaway:** In the grand scheme, this is not a big deal, and it's not a problem with the product itself. But for my own personal satisfaction, I want to put some small weight towards working on products that can more easily justify their technical coolness. Of course, this may require sacrificing product uniqueness.

### Company Culture

Based on Gather, how would I go about building a company culture from day 1?

- Demos
- Daily standups - driving the pace is important

### Practices for Running an Engineering Org

Robust Experimentation and A/B testing

Hiring a Full Stack Team

Product Minded Engineers

##### TBD or staging environment

- The pros and cons of using a staging environment vs TBD

##### Setting up a testing environment

- Using a testing framework like Jest
- How to build the proper tooling to make writing tests easy
  - The key to test coverage is making it super easy to write tests
    - deeper bullet point
      - even deeper bullet
- Proper testing style guide
- Testing speeds up development a lot -- hard to prioritize in early stage but definitely important

##### Setting SLAs

- PR review SLAs are super important, especially as you scale the team
- 4 hour SLA at stripe is crazy but huge if true

##### Better Communication (personal)

- Constant communication with all stakeholders of the project, especially non-technical stakeholders
- People just want to know that things are being handled. The main concern is uncertainty
- Always prefer pushing back deadlines / inviting disappointment in favor of certainty

##### Better Communication (company)

- Daily standups are actually quite motivating IMO
- Very transparent communication
  - When the company was going through a tough time, saying "We can't promise a particular outcome but we can promise transparency" made me/the company feel a lot better
- Selling the mission statement at each all-hands

##### Setting up Incident

- Creating a more clear go-to guide for dealing with incidents when on call

##### Feature Flagging

- Super worth, super easy to implement and 100x investment
- Making it easy to run experiments in general

##### Metrics

- Setting up dashboards in NR or amplitude
- "Make it measurable"

##### Writing Integration and Unit Tests with Jest

#### Typescript

All of `ts-utils` is super helpful
Being familiar with `ramda` functions

All of the redux state helpers
